# Email about travel to Korea

Dear Christen,

How was your trip to Korea? I heard the weather there is very pleasant this time of the year. I’m not sure but I think it’s warmer than -5°C from what Derek told me. Which city did you go to? I heard the food scene there is pretty awesome! It would’ve been nice if Carrie would let me have a vacation, but she and I had prior commitments. You know how work gets!

It has been freezing here. Global warming is for real! You know, they say it’s just not about hot temperatures but about extreme temperatures! Maybe that’s why this winter is a killer! And don’t get me started on the mountains of snow that are piling up! The city is doing a lot and we are doing all we can to not slip or fall on the ice; no one would bet against the ice in Canada!

Once again, the city is contributing in a way by creating some heated bus shelters. You will find that especially useful! Commute needs to be made more comfortable for the winter months. It’s almost like we assume that we’re like other countries by keeping some bus stops outdoors but we clearly could use a model tweak! How is the commute there? Are you renting a car or doing the usual? I have just so many questions to ask you! Oh, one more thing, due to the pandemic, the interest rates are really down on cars. Getting a good deal could have been very possible if cars were not selling like pancakes but I guess I’m late to everything! Sigh. Do you want me to look at a few deals for you? What are your thoughts on peer to peer commute? When you get back, we can probably think about that.

On top of the cost savings, what I really need is a little entertainment in my morning commute. This snow is not doing my mood any good! As you can see, I’m already planning everything expecting your return! Oh, and I just got the latest edition of the Korean DVDs that we watch. Still though, I’m curious to know if you find deals cheaper than $10 per DVD for those dramas; let me know!

Can’t wait to have you back. Miss you lots!

Take care,

Cara