
Do the following statements agree with the information given in Reading Passage 2?

In boxes 13–18 on your answer sheet, write

True - if the statement agrees with the information

False - if the statement contradicts the information

Not Given - if there is no information on this

13. It is unclear where neutrinos come from.

14. Neutrinos can pass through a person’s body without causing harm.

15. It took scientists between 50-70 nanoseconds to send the neutrinos from Geneva to Italy.

16. Researchers accounted for effects the moon might have had on the experiment.

17. The theory of relativity has often been called into question unsuccessfully.

18. This experiment could soon lead to some practical uses for time travel

Complete the table below.

Choose NO MORE THAN THREE WORDS from the passage for each answer.

Write your answers in boxes – on your answer sheet.

Original Theorist	Theory	Principle
 René Barjavel	 Grandfather paradox	 Time travel would allow for 19 …………… that would actually make time travel impossible.
 Igor Novikov	 Self-consistency principle	 It is only possible to alter history in ways that result in no 22 ………………… .
 21 ………………	 Many-worlds interpretation	 Each possible event has an 22 …………………, so a time traveller changing the past would simply end up in a different branch of history than the one he left.
 Unknown	 23 ………………	 If a time traveller changed the past to prevent his future life, he would not have a 24 ………………… as the person never existed.

Choose the correct letter, A, B, C or D.

Write the correct letter in box 25 on your answer sheet.

Stephen Hawking has stated that

A. Human time travel is theoretically possible, but is unlikely to ever actually occur.

B. Human time travel might be possible, but only moving backward in time.

C. Human time travel might be possible, but only moving forward in time.

D. All time travel is impossible.

Remember, you have 60 minutes to complete the Reading test! You should spend about 20 minutes on each of the three sections.

You have now reached the end of your Reading test; download the answers and see how well you have done.